# 1-22-25

### Assembly gameplay
- Semicolons are for comments.
- GETC, OUT, HALT, etc. are TRAP calls that act like OS calls/syscalls. 
- Lines that start with . are instructions that go directly to the assembler.
- Programs are loaded into memory at 0x3000 for the LC3. 
    - Probably because the first chunks of memory are reserved. 
- Instructions are loaded into the Instruction Register (IR), and the location of the instructions are designated by the program counter (PC).
    - The program counter stores memory addresses that store where the next instruction is located. 
    - Always points at the *next* instruction. Not the current instruction.
    - The program counter continues to increment until it points at a HALT instruction.
    - Instructions that change the PC are BR instructions. 
- The main datatype in any processor is simply a 2's complement integer. Anything else is a representation formed from these integers. 

### Flags
- There are 3 flags, N, Z and P.
- N is set if the operation result is negative.
- P is set if the operation result is positive. 
    - If N and Z are not set, then P can be assumed to be set and is redundant in most processors. 
- Z is set if the operation result is zero. 
    - Z can be set to determine the end of something. This is called "null termination" and is how strings are ended.
- There are other flags that are not in the LC3.
    - v is set in the occurance of an overflow.
    - C is set as the result of a carry operation from an ADD instruction.
    - Most processors have these two.

### Registers
- A clock cycle is how fast a processor can do one operation.
- The system bus allows us to move data between registers. 
- There are 8 general purpose registers, starting at R0 and ending at R7.
    - x86 actually only has one.
- The IR and PC are both registers.
    - The IR is loaded through the MAR and MDR. The PC address is loaded into the MAR, then the instruction is loaded into the MDR and is put into the IR. 
- Memory Address Register (MAR), used when communicating with external devices. It goes to the memory address, and loads the data in the MDR.
- Memory Data Register (MDR), stores the data gathered by the MAR. 
- Keyboard Data Register (KBDR). The KBDR and KBSR are connected to the keyboard, externally. Character data is stored here.
- Keyboard Status Register (KBSR), has a 1 loaded when a key is pressed. Only stores whether a new key was pressed. 
- Display Data Register (DDR), used to display characters to the screen. Holds the data to be displayed to the screen.
- Display Status Register (DSR), used to display characters to the screen. Holds whether a new character is ready to be displayed. A 0 means a character was displayed, and a 1 means it is ready to be displayed. 
- Process State Register (PSR), where N Z and P are stored. (Unimportant, unbothered.)

### Operate Instructions 
- There are 3 operate instructions. They are used for math and logic. 
    - ADD |(0001) + DR + SR1 + (000) + SR2|, or |(0001) + DR + SR1 + (1) + Immediate (5 bits)| 
    - AND |(0101) + DR + SR1 + (000) + SR2|, or |(0101) + DR + SR1 + (1) + Immediate (5 bits)|
    - NOT |(1001) + DR + SR + (111111)|
    - Inverting is 1's compliment???? that's insane. 
