# 1-24-25 

### Using Operate Instructions 
- To subtract, you can do an NOT, ADD 1, and then an add ADD.
- To do a bitwise or, you must utilize DeMorgans law, and do a NOT of both registeres, then AND, then another NOT. 
- To transfer, you use an immediate ADD with #0, and store it in a different register. 
- To clear something, you use an immediate AND with #0. 

### NOTE:
- Don't use LDI or STI. He's going to **GET** You. 
- Seldom use LDR and STR as well unless manipulating strings. He will ALSO **GET** You.
- Addresses are **ALWAYS** Hex.

### Addressing Modes
- PC-Relative.
    - When storing addresses, LD and ST only allow for 9 bits. We get around that with PC-Relative addressing.
    - All PC-Relative means is you start counting at the Program Counter. 
    - Effective Address: Program Counter + Offset. 
    - Data is stored after a HALT or RET instruction. 
    - If you somehow get more than 255 instructions away from the PC and you can't use PC-Relative *You Have Done Something Wrong.*
        - In real programming in real processors, LDI or STI would fix this. 
    
### Data Movement Instructions
- LD and ST are the main way we go from memory-register and register-memory. 
    - An issue with LD or ST is they take an offset. This offset has to be calculated BY HAND for a while.
    - The "Effective Address" is PC + PCO, and is where the LD instructions stores data for "Main" to use. (The main subroutine).
        - Ex: A load is at 3004, and our halt is at 300A. Our EA is at 300B, and our offset would be 7, which is what LD would use.
        - The assembler calculates this for us. 
        - The program counter is 1 off of what the loaded address is. So the effective address is 1 + the offset in theory. (not true but a way to think abt it)



