# 1-29-25

### Indirect Addressing
- LDI -> Load indirect (Memory to Register).
- STI -> Store Indirect (Register to Memory).
    - Uses PC-Offset to find the address of a memory location. 
    - Don't use these in your programs.
    - Intermediate Address (IA) is calculated the same as the EA. 
        - Calculates an address, goes to the address STORED at that address, and retrieves the data. (Dereferencing a pointer.)
        - Address from the instruction is the IA, then the address stored at the IA is the EA. 

### Base Register + Offset
- LDR -> Load Register
- STR -> Store Register
    - Uses an address stored in a register to find/store things in memory. 
    - Example: Instead of storing in a register and using a 9 bit 2's comp integer, there's a full 16 bit address plus a 6 bit 2's comp integer as the offset.

### LEA and Immediate Mode
- LEA -> Load Effective Address
    - Immediate because it doesn't access memory. 
    - It works EXACTLY the same as LD besides it stores an address instead of the data at that address.

### Branching
- BR -> Branch (Conditional)
    - Utilizes NZP in the instruction and compares it to the NZP in the processor. 
        - How we do if statements. 
    - Branches to the location calculated in the offset (9 Bit 2's comp value).
    - Changes the program counter if the flags specified in the branch instruction are met. 
    - The NZP flags are set based on the result of any of these instrcutions:
        - ADD, AND, NOT, LD, LDI, LDR, LEA

